[MUSIC]
Welcome to Rolling Updates.
After watching this video you will be
able explain what a rolling update is and
how it works, list the pre steps before
a rolling update can be applied and
demonstrate how to roll
back a rolling update.
Rolling updates are automated updates
that occur on a scheduled basis.
They roll out automated and
controlled app changes across pods.
Work with pod templates like
deployments and allow for
rollback as needed to prepare your
application to enable rolling updates.
Add liveness probes and
readiness probes to deployments.
That way deployments
are appropriately marked as ready.
Next, add a rolling update
strategy to the YAML file.
In this example, you are creating
a deployment with ten pods.
Your strategy is to have at least
50% of the pods always available.
The max surge of two says that there can
only be two pods added to the ten you
defined earlier.
For a zero downtime system,
set the max unavailable to zero.
Setting the max surge to 100% would double
the number of pods and create a complete
replica before taking the original set
down after the rollout is complete.
And sometimes it is also useful to
use the minReadySeconds attribute
to wait a few seconds before moving
to the next pod in the rollout stage.
Lets look at a working example of
rolling out an application update.
You have a deployment with
three pods in your replica set.
Your application displays
the message hello world.
Your client has submitted a new
request and you have a new image for
your application with a different
message instead of the original text.
You need to show hello world
v two to your users, but
you cannot have any downtime
in your application.
First you need to build, tag and
upload this new image to Docker hub.
Your new software has been Dockerized and
then updated to Docker Hub,
with the name and tag hello-kubernetes
upkar/hello-kubernetes:2.0.
These are simple Docker commands,
not related to Kubernetes at all.
Now apply this new image
to your deployment.
You have the three pods
from the first command.
The second command sets the image flag
to the updated tag image on Docker hub.
The output says the image has been updated
but lets verify if that actually happened.
You can see the status of the rollout
by using the rollout status command.
The API shows deployment
"hello-kubernetes" successfully
rolled out, that's great.
Now if you go back to the URL you will
see the new message hello world B two.
Sometimes there are errors in a deployment
or the client can change their minds.
Rollbacks are easy to
implement in Kubernetes.
Use an undo command on the rollout.
Use the get pods command to confirm
the rollout pods are terminated.
You will also see three new pods that
are created as part of this rollback.
If you visit the site again you
will see the original message and
that's how you roll back
challenges to your application.
Now, let's take a look at
how rolling updates work,
both all-at-once and one-at-a-time.
In an all at once rollout,
all v one objects must be removed
before v two objects can become active.
Here you see version one of an app with
three pods running that users can access.
When version two is deployed,
new pods are created,
the version one pods are marked for
deletion and removed.
User access is blocked.
Once the version 1 pods are removed,
the version 2 pods become active and
user access is restored.
Notice the time lag between deployment and
pod updates.
In an all at once rollback.
All v two objects must be removed
before v one objects can become active.
Lets see what an all at
once rollback looks like.
Here you see version two of an app with
three pods running that users can access.
When version one of the app is deployed,
new pods are created, the version
two pods are marked for deletion and
removed and user access is blocked.
Once the 2 two pods are removed,
the version 1 pods become active and
user access is restored.
In a one-at-a-time rollout,
the update is staggered so
user access is not interrupted.
Here you see version one of an app with
three running pods that users can access.
When version 2 is deployed,
a new pod is created.
The first version one pod is marked for
deletion and removed and
the v two pod becomes active.
Then a second V2 pod is created and
the second version 1 podcast is marked for
deletion and removed.
The second v two pod becomes active,
a third v two pod is created and
the third version one pod is marked for
deletion and removed.
And now the third v two pod becomes
active with a staggered update.
User access is not interrupted
in a one at a time rollback.
The update rollback is staggered so
user access is not interrupted.
Lets see what a one-at-a-time
rollback looks like.
Here you see version two of an app with
three running pods that users can access.
When version one of the app is deployed,
a new pod is created.
The first version two pod is marked for
deletion and removed and
the v one pod becomes active.
Now a second v one pod is created,
the second version two pod is marked for
deletion and removed and
the second v one pod becomes active.
Then a third v one pod is created and
the third version two pod is marked for
deletion and removed, and
the third v one pod becomes active.
In this video, you learn that rolling
updates roll out app changes in
a controlled and automated way.
Rolling updates publish changes to
applications without noticeable
interruption.
Rolling updates can roll back changes
when an application needs to revert.
And rolling updates and rollbacks can
be performed using all-at-once and
one-at-a-time strategies.
[MUSIC]